Pyrogue in Dart
===============

This is an automatic ChatGPT translation of [Pyrogue](https://github.com/sma/pyrogue) from Python to Dart. The very first commit is the raw translation. Further commits are my attempts to make it actually work.

Initially, there are 2K+ errors mostly because there are no imports.

I fixed all imports and all functions and variables which were differently named in different files. I also fixed some mistranslations because of tuples. ChatGPT also didn't correctly translate octal constants. 

I added a simple curses implementation.

The game is playable but not yet bug-free.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_What follows, is the original README â€¦_

Pyrogue
=======

For fun, I ported a 20 years old clone of a nearly 30 years old computer game
called [Rogue][rogue] to Python. The C code was written by Tim Stoehr in 1986.
The Python code was written in early 2008 by me, Stefan Matthias Aust. It is
very unpythonic because it's a raw and direct port of the C code to Python
2.5.x, nothing to be particularly proud of.

It requires curses, so it probably runs only on Unix-like systems.

[rogue]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rogue_(computer_game)

Screenshoots
------------

Our fearless hero (`@`) is about to climb down to level 3 of the Dungeons of
Doom, equipped with some food, a magical armor, a long sword and some unknown
magical potions. The `%` denotes the stairway.

<pre class="console">
                                                a) a ration of food
                              -------------     b) +1 ring mail [4] being worn
  -------------               |           |     c) a +1,+1 mace
  |           |###############+           |     d) a +1,+0 short bow
  |           +#              |           |     e) 33 +0,+0 arrows
  --------+----               -----+-------     g) a black potion
          #                        #            h) a yellow potion
          #                        ###          j) a long sword in hand
          ####                       #          --press space to continue--
       ------+-----------           -+--------------              --------------
       |                |       ####+..............|              |            |
       |                +########   |..%.....@.....+#########     |            |
       |                |           |..............|        ######+            |
       ------------------           ---------+------              --------------
                                             #
                              ################
                            --+------                          --------
                            |       |                          |      |
                            |       +#####                     |      |
                            ---------    #                     |      |
                                         #                     |      |
                                         ######################+      |
                                                               --------
Level: 2  Gold:  59  Hp: 35(35)  Str: 15(16)  Arm:  4  Exp: 4/40 
</pre>

Running the Game
----------------

	python main.py

I ported 98% of the code. The save function is missing. The code has bugs, though. 

It took me about 15 hours to rewrite 6282 lines of C code into 4065 lines of Python code and find the oversights I made.

Documentation
-------------
	Movement:

	 y  k  u   by default, @ moves one space and picks up items or attacks
	  \ | /    with SHIFT, @ moves as many spaces as possible
	h --+-- l  with CTRL, @ moves until something interesting is nearby
	  / | \    use m <dir> to move without picking up   
	 b  j  n   use f/F <dir> to attack without moving

	Other commands:

	.       - wait (precede with numbers to wait longer)
	*       - when asked for an item, show inventory
	>       - go one level down
	<       - go one level up (only possible with amulet)
	a
	b       - move downleft (see above)
	c <itm> - call (name) an item (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
	d <itm> - drop item
	e <itm> - eat something
	f <dir> - fight
	F <dir> - fight to death
	g
	h       - move left (see above)
	i       - show inventory
	I <itm> - show only a single item (for whatever reason...)
	j       - move up (see above) 
	k       - move down (see above)
	l       - move right (see above)
	m <dir> - move onto a field without picking up an item
	n       - move downright (see above)
	o
	p
	P       - put on (wear) armor
	q <itm> - quaff (drink) a potion
	Q       - quit the game
	r <itm> - read a scroll
	s
	t <d><i>- throw a weapon (for arrows, you need to wield a bow)
	T       - take off armor
	u       - move upright (see above)
	v       - print version number
	w <itm> - wield (use) a weapon
	W <itm> - wear armor
	x
	y       - move upleft (see above)
	z <d><i>- zap a wand (against a monster nearby)

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2009, 2023 Stefan Matthias Aust

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.